Initial setup (#1)
modelpack/community: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing

Contributions should be made via pull requests. Pull requests will be reviewed
by one or more maintainers and merged when acceptable.

The goal of the ModelPack project is to build a vendor-neutral, open source
specification standard to package, distribute and run AI models in a cloud native

> environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specification standard to package, distribute and run AI models in cloud native
environments.
```

When developing features inside the ModelPack project, changes should be focused

> towards building general functionalities to help broader cloud native and AI ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
towards building general functionalities to help the broader cloud native and AI ecosystem.
```

> Some features may be useful in specific scenarios, however, they may not be appropriate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some features may be useful in specific scenarios. However, they may not be appropriate
```

to be part of the ModelPack project.

## Successful Changes

We ask that before contributing, please make the effort to coordinate with the
maintainers of the project before submitting large or high impact PRs. This
will prevent you from doing extra work that may or may not be merged.

PRs that are just submitted without any prior communication will likely be

> summarily closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slower to integrate as additional communication  is required between maintainers and submitter. There is also a risk the PR may be closed if any subsequent inquiries are not addressed.
```

> While pull requests are the methodology for submitting changes to code, changes

Reviewer: Should we use pull requests or PR's in this document? There is a mix of both

Author: hmm, let's settle on `pull request`.

are much more likely to be accepted if they are accompanied by additional
engineering work. While we don't define this explicitly, most of these goals
are accomplished through communication of the design goals and subsequent
solutions. Often times, it helps to first state the problem before presenting
solutions.

Typically, the best methods of accomplishing this are to submit an issue,
stating the problem. This issue can include a problem statement and a
checklist with requirements. If solutions are proposed, alternatives should be
listed and eliminated. Even if the criteria for elimination of a solution is
frivolous, say so.

Larger changes typically work best with design documents. These are focused
on providing context to the design at the time the feature was conceived and can
inform future documentation contributions.

> Make sure that new tests are added for bugs in order to catch regressions and tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that tests are added for bugs in order to catch regressions along with
```

> with new features to exercise the new functionality that is added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with tests to exercise any  new functionality that is added.
```

## Commit Messages

There are times for one line commit messages and this is not one of them.
Commit messages should follow best practices, including explaining the context
of the problem and how it was solved, including in caveats or follow up changes
required. They should tell the story of the change and provide readers

> understanding of what led to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an understanding of its origins.
```

If you're lost about what this even means, please see [How to Write a Git

> Commit Message](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) for a start.

Reviewer: Is there any CNCF or GitHub best practices/documentation that can be sourced instead?

Author: containerd is referring to the same document: https://github.com/containerd/project/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md?plain=1#L55
same is kubernetes:
https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/guide/contributing.md?plain=1#L98

In practice, the best approach to maintaining a nice commit message is to
leverage a `git add -p` and `git commit --amend` to formulate a solid
changeset. This allows one to piece together a change, as information becomes
available.

> If you squash a series of commits, don't just submit that. Re-write the commit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you squash a series of commits, don't just submit the aggregation of commit messages. Re-write the commit
```

please use `Co-authored-by` to indicate each person who contributed to the PR. This
enables automated tools
and [Github](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project/creating-and-editing-commits/creating-a-commit-with-multiple-authors)
to highlight everyone's role in the PR.

Remember, you're telling part of the story with the commit message. Don't make
your chapter weird.

## Applying License Header to New Files

If you submit a contribution that adds a new file, please add the license
header.

```console
/*
 *     Copyright 2025 The CNCF ModelPack Authors
 *
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
 */
```

> The above is an example license header we use in the ModelPack project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above is an example license header we use in the ModelPack project. Ensure that the correct year is specified relating to the current date and time.
```

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the open source license
    indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
    in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

Then you just add a line to every git commit message:

    Signed-off-by: Joe Smith <joe.smith@email.com>

> Use your real name (sorry, no pseudonyms or anonymous contributions.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use your real name (sorry, no pseudonyms or anonymous contributions).
```

> If you set your `user.name` and `user.email` git configs, you can sign your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set your `user.name` and `user.email` git configurations, you can sign your
```
